README.md, before:

# WebBLE

Initial partial implementation of the [Web Bluetooth](https://webbluetoothcg.github.io/web-bluetooth/) 
spec for iOS, originally forked from [Paul Thierault](https://github.com/pauljt)'s [original implementation](https://github.com/pauljt/BleBrowser).

WebBLE is licensed under the Apache Version 2.0 License as per the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

### Distributions

-  [WebBLE](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/webble/id1193531073) was the first distribution and the one that I (daphtdazz) maintain and support. Purchasing this is the best way to support the project.

Others are available on the app store which provide varying levels of support / alternative features.

> If you would like to add your distribution to this list then please send a PR, but it should provide some extra functionality over WebBLE and not just be a direct clone.


## Supported APIs v1.0

### `navigator.bluetooth`

- `.requestDevice(options)`
  - `options.acceptAllDevices = true` to ask for any device
  - `options.filters` is a list of filters (mutually exclusive with `acceptAllDevices`) with properties
    - `name`: devices with the given name will be included
    - `namePrefix`: devices with names with this prefix will be included
    - `services`: list of service aliases or uuids.

### `BluetoothDevice`

- `.id`
- `.name`
- `.gatt`
- `.gattserverdisconnected: EventHandler`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTServer`

- `.connected`
- `.connect()`
- `.disconnect()`
- `.getPrimaryService(uuid)`
- `.getPrimaryServices()`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTService`

- `.uuid`
- `.device`
- `.getCharacteristic(uuid)`
- `.getCharacteristics`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTCharacteristic`

- `.service`
- `.uuid`
- `.value`
- `.readValue()`
- `.writeValue(value)`
- `.oncharacteristicvaluechanged: EventHandler`
- `.startNotifications()`
- `.stopNotifications()`
- `.addEventListener()`
- `.removeEventListener()`

Everything else is TBD!

## Development

Info if you want to add features / fix bugs in the project.

### Setup

If you want to build and run locally, you just have to do the following:

- Set your `DEVELOPMENT_TEAM` ID in Locations -> Custom Paths as per [this stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39669661/how-to-prevent-xcode-8-from-saving-development-team-in-pbxproj/40424891#40424891) answer, which is to avoid pushing personal / conflicting team IDs to github. 

### Testing

The [end-to-end "device" tests](DeviceTests/) are run semi-manually before WebBLE versions are released to the App Store.

> 💡 Just run a simple http server from the root of the codebase using e.g `python3 -m http.server` and navigate to your machine's address on your network to run these tests in webble on your iOS device

Currently there are no unit tests... partly because it's time-consuming and difficult to write meaningful unit tests since there are three things to test: the javascript APIs, the native glue layer and the actual behaviour of a bluetooth device at the other end. Instead end-to-end tests which require some real devices to be used are hosted [here](https://www.greenparksoftware.co.uk/projects/webble/pucktest), and these tests are run / fixed before new versions of [WebBLE](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/webble/id1193531073) are released to the App store.

If you are maintaining your own release you can use those tests or write your own. If you want to spend the effort to start adding actual unit tests then that would be marvellous.

> 💡 If you have a device you'd like me to add tests for please get in contact with me!

Commit message:

Update https.py so it listens on ipv6 addresses too

README.md, after:

# WebBLE

Initial partial implementation of the [Web Bluetooth](https://webbluetoothcg.github.io/web-bluetooth/) 
spec for iOS, originally forked from [Paul Thierault](https://github.com/pauljt)'s [original implementation](https://github.com/pauljt/BleBrowser).

WebBLE is licensed under the Apache Version 2.0 License as per the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file.

### Distributions

-  [WebBLE](https://apps.apple.com/gb/app/webble/id1193531073) was the first distribution and the one that I (daphtdazz) maintain and support. Purchasing this is the best way to support the project.

Others are available on the app store which provide varying levels of support / alternative features.

> If you would like to add your distribution to this list then please send a PR, but it should provide some extra functionality over WebBLE and not just be a direct clone.


## Supported APIs v1.0

### `navigator.bluetooth`

- `.requestDevice(options)`
  - `options.acceptAllDevices = true` to ask for any device
  - `options.filters` is a list of filters (mutually exclusive with `acceptAllDevices`) with properties
    - `name`: devices with the given name will be included
    - `namePrefix`: devices with names with this prefix will be included
    - `services`: list of service aliases or uuids.

### `BluetoothDevice`

- `.id`
- `.name`
- `.gatt`
- `.gattserverdisconnected: EventHandler`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTServer`

- `.connected`
- `.connect()`
- `.disconnect()`
- `.getPrimaryService(uuid)`
- `.getPrimaryServices()`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTService`

- `.uuid`
- `.device`
- `.getCharacteristic(uuid)`
- `.getCharacteristics`

### `BluetoothRemoteGATTCharacteristic`

- `.service`
- `.uuid`
- `.value`
- `.readValue()`
- `.writeValue(value)`
- `.oncharacteristicvaluechanged: EventHandler`
- `.startNotifications()`
- `.stopNotifications()`
- `.addEventListener()`
- `.removeEventListener()`

Everything else is TBD!

## Development

Info if you want to add features / fix bugs in the project.

### Setup

If you want to build and run locally, you just have to do the following:

- Set your `DEVELOPMENT_TEAM` ID in Locations -> Custom Paths as per [this stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39669661/how-to-prevent-xcode-8-from-saving-development-team-in-pbxproj/40424891#40424891) answer, which is to avoid pushing personal / conflicting team IDs to github. 

### Testing

If you are maintaining your own release you can use those tests or write your own. If you want to spend the effort to start adding actual unit tests then that would be marvellous.

> 💡 If you have a device you'd like me to add tests for please get in contact with me!

#### End-to-end tests

The [end-to-end "device" tests](DeviceTests/) are run semi-manually before WebBLE versions are released to the App Store. Some of these require real devices to be used to test with properly.

If you are fixing 

To run these tests you should set up a local certificate for testing with and run

```bash
python3 https.py local-certificate-private-key.key local-certificate-public-cert.cer
```

See the docstring in https.py for instructions on settings up local certificates for testing (it's relatively straightforward...). You can also add an override in Info.plist to allow testing against a HTTP instead of an HTTPS server, but it's better just to create a local certificate.

#### Xcode unit tests

Currently there are no Xcode unit tests... partly because it's time-consuming and difficult to write meaningful unit tests since there are three things to test: the javascript APIs, the native glue layer and the actual behaviour of a bluetooth device at the other end. Instead the end-to-end tests are relied on for regression checking.
